README.md, before:

# jquery-avoid-orphans

A JQuery plugin that uses non-breaking spaces and non-breaking hyphens to avoid orphans in text (single words
on a new line at the end a paragraph or block of text).

Demo page: [http://abcnews.github.io/jquery-avoidOrphans/](http://abcnews.github.io/jquery-avoidOrphans/)

## Dependencies

* JQuery ('cause it's a JQuery plugin)

For development you'll need [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/download/) and the dependencies managed via package.json.

## Tests

Yup, there are tests in the test folder. They run in mocha via grunt (see below). They can also be viewed in the
browser. Just open `/test/index.html` directly in your browser.

## Getting started

AvoidOrphans can be used in any browserify or AMD project out of the box. Just `require()` it.

Built (minified and unminified) JS can be found in the dist folder and can be used without needing to build the project
yourself.

For global browser environments, you can use add one of the JavaScript files in the `dist` folder to your page.

If JQuery isn't available when the AvoidOrphans script is loaded, don't sweat it. Just call installPlugin() when
you're ready.

	AvoidOrphans.installPlugin();

### Usage

With content like this...

	<div id="content">
		<p>I am a paragraph.</p>
		<p>I am another paragraph.</p>
		<p>And I know it's debatable whether you could call us all paragraphs, but you get the idea...</p>
	</div>

You could apply avoid orphans to each paragraph like so...

	$('#content p').avoidOrphans();

Note that if you did this...

	$('#content').avoidOrphans();

... only the last line (the last paragraph) would have avoid orphans applied.

Take a look at the demo page to see this in action.

### Develop

Run `npm install` to locally install Node package dependencies, then run the default `grunt` task which:

* Runs `grunt dev` to create a development build (see Tasks, below)
* Starts up a development server in the build directory, running on [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
* Watches files under `src/` for changes, triggering partial development builds as required
* Runs the tests in phantom js and runs them again when js or test files change.

### Demo

With the default grunt task running you can take a look at the demo page at http://localhost:8000/.

### Build

Run `grunt build` to build the project. This will create new versions of the js files in the dist folder.

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed
functionality. Lint and test your code using the Grunt tasks included in the project (and described above).

Commit message:

Remove protocol from demo page and update readme.

README.md, after:

# jquery-avoid-orphans

A JQuery plugin that uses non-breaking spaces and non-breaking hyphens to avoid orphans in text (single words
on a new line at the end a paragraph or block of text).

Demo page: [http://abcnews.github.io/jquery-avoidOrphans/](http://abcnews.github.io/jquery-avoidOrphans/)

## Dependencies

* JQuery ('cause it's a JQuery plugin)

For development you'll need [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/download/) and the dependencies managed via package.json.

## Tests

Yup, there are tests in the test folder. They run in mocha via grunt (see below). They can also be viewed in the
browser. Just open `/test/index.html` directly in your browser.

## Getting started

AvoidOrphans can be used in any browserify or AMD project out of the box. Just `require()` it.

Built (minified and unminified) JS can be found in the dist folder and can be used without needing to build the project
yourself.

For global browser environments, you can use add one of the JavaScript files in the `dist` folder to your page.

If JQuery isn't available when the AvoidOrphans script is loaded, don't sweat it. Just call installPlugin() when
you're ready.

	AvoidOrphans.installPlugin();

### Usage

With content like this...

	<div id="content">
		<p>I am a paragraph.</p>
		<p>I am another paragraph.</p>
		<p>And I know it's debatable whether you could call us all paragraphs, but you get the idea...</p>
	</div>

You could apply avoid orphans to each paragraph like so...

	$('#content p').avoidOrphans();

Note that if you did this...

	$('#content').avoidOrphans();

... only the last line (the last paragraph) would have avoid orphans applied.

Take a look at the demo page to see this in action.

### Develop

Run `npm install` to locally install Node package dependencies, then run the default `grunt` task which:

* Runs `grunt dev` to create a development build (see Tasks, below)
* Starts up a development server in the build directory, running on [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
* Watches files under `src/` for changes, triggering partial development builds as required
* Runs the tests in phantom js and runs them again when js or test files change.

### Demo

With the default grunt task running you can take a look at the demo page at http://localhost:8000/.

### Build

Run `grunt build` to build the project. This will create new versions of the js files in the dist folder and update
the published demo page.

## Contributing

In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed
functionality. Lint and test your code using the Grunt tasks included in the project (and described above).
